Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
(serene accordion music)
- Do people say you
know. was this your dream
when you set out to do a game?
This is way beyond any
dream that existed then.
I mean. you couldn't have
dreamt this back then.
It. we're creating the
dream. we created the dream.
And I feel like THPS was a huge part
of why skateboarding is here to stay.
Why it's in the Olympics.
Why it's. what kids gravitate to.
more so than team sports now.
A big reason that I'm still here.
that I'm still even relevant in this world
is because of that series.
I mean for sure it's
the reason I'm standing
on this million dollar ramp
that I get to skate everyday.
(skateboard wheels rumble)
(people cheer)
(upbeat rock music)
♪ Tell us where you're from ♪
♪ What you want to become ♪
♪ And we'll say if you're OK ♪
♪ Where did you go to school ♪
♪ Right answer and you're cool ♪
♪ Yeah you're the kid the whole day ♪
♪ You get a sticker in your face ♪
♪ Information about the case ♪
♪ So you know your potential ♪
♪ Don't think you can extend ♪
♪ Just comprehend ♪
♪ But I don't wanna hear it ♪
♪ No it's more than I accept ♪
♪ Cause I don't care
where I belong no more ♪
♪ What we share or not I will ignore ♪
♪ And I won't waste my time fitting in ♪
♪ Cause I don't think contrast is a sin ♪
♪ No it's not a sin. ♪
(old school upbeat piano music)
- Well in the 80s the skateboard scene
had a lot of ups and downs.
I remember when I got
into it the late 70s.
it was pretty popular.
Skate parks were getting
built all over the country
specially California side.
And then around 1980. '81. I don't know
something happened and it
just kinda just crashed.
And all the skate board
parks that I would see
in the magazine were like closing.
- You know the skate boarding
scene in the early 80s
was raw. it was backyard.
We went from skate parks being
where we performed and did competitions
to now it's backyard ramps.
Thrasher Magazine just came out in 1981.
Transworld and. we really took
it to a underground level.
We were making seven hundred
bucks for first place contest.
Just wanting a picture in the magazine.
But you know what to us. it
was like a million bucks.
And so it didn't matter. we
were going to do it regardless.
But. we were really paving
the way for what it is today.
- When I first started skating.
I didn't even know other people skated.
I didn't know anything about it cause.
I'd grew on up in Alabama and
it was. pretty. pretty rural.
We had like pigs and
chickens and goats and stuff
and skateboarding was like
not even on my radar so.
if it wasn't on like the weekly episode
of'' Dukes of Hazard. '' I
didn't know anything about it.
- There was a couple of demos at my school
that they'd come in on a
plexiglass ramp (chuckles)
and. I really liked it .
I like the transition skating and.
But every time I. like my friends
had a quarter pipe down the street.
and I'd go skate and
try to skate with them
and they would just make fun of me.
you know it was late 70s and kids are like
telling me that I can't skate
because girls don't skate.
- Skating grew in the 80s because it was.
sort of. new. flashy
activity and you know.
skating kinda went through
an underground phase
in the late 70s.
And when it emerged it was
suddenly this new sport
with acrobatics and aerials
out of swimming pools
and it was exciting and it was irreverent.
Kids were in to it you know.
cause their parents hated it.
(chuckles)
- Skating wasn't popular.
I couldn't even begin to
use the term mainstream
until mid 80s.
I think 86. I don't know. whenever it was.
But going on tour every year.
suddenly we went from a few
people showing up at demos
to being surrounded.
- We kept continuous skating
and kept promoting and kept traveling.
We even started making videos.
(loud bang)
- Now this is a skateboard.
- So the earliest videos.
Stacy Peralta. created that.
And he turned it into. for
what it was an art form.
And he put so much thought into it.
Structurally it was so professional.
The word got out. the
videos become a huge success
and we started getting this momentum.
We started selling
skateboard more and more.
Bigger companies wanted to use.
the skaters in like movies.
commercials and a contest
started happening again.
We started doing skateboard
contests in like colossseums
and auditoriums where
we had built huge ramps
and people would. you know come all.
all over the world to just try
to come and meet these pros
that they've seen in these
videos now and those magazines.
By the late 80s it was huge.
(crowd cheers)
(wheels rumble)
- [Commentator] All right
lets give him a big hand.
Last run of the day.
- There was a big
transition in the late 80s
early 90s from vert
skating. like vert skating
was like what was on television.
It was like what was portrayed as the cool
thing in skateboarding.
But vert skating wasn't
accessible for every kid.
Especially like myself.
I didn't have a vert ramp.
I had a driveway and a
street in front of my house.
- In that time there wasn't
all these skate parks
to go skate (chuckles). like there is now.
So. it was such a different time
compared to like. oh where
are we gonna skate today.
- With all the skate park
closures in the late 80s.
skating. the only way
skating could survive
was if you were doing it on the streets
because there were no facilities
designated for skate boarding anymore.
- Everyone just started.
kind of at a default
just skating what they had
which was streets you know.
You had streets in front of your house
and everyone had like a town. a downtown
were you lived in even if you
lived in the smallest town
you still had a downtown.
- So people took what they loved
and started doing it out in the wild.
(energetic rock music)
♪ Don't become a hip chain ♪
♪ Be broken ♪
♪ But I check the substrate
to find a halo light ♪
- Street skating started
to become like the thing
that was very attractive.
Where a kid could get a board
and just go out and skate
in the streets.
And because of that. all the
stars that were vert skaters
really didn't have a place to perform
because like people just
wanted to see a street skater.
♪ Thy progeny is born today ♪
♪ As we blow ourself away. ♪
- No one skated vert anymore so
we had to get really technical.
They had to get technical in street.
To be the best you gotta
be the most technical
so you gotta somehow figure out
how to fling that board around.
Whether it would be late. early or
both a combination of early and late.
And getting to fling that thing
around and get back on it.
Who cares what it looked like
to do that. you just did it.
All the guys that I feel
like made it out of that
made it through that. that shit storm
was. have been able to sort
of have that understanding
of like. this could be gone at any moment.
Be prepared.
- Yeah with skateboarding
it had these huge explosions
in the 70s. and then kinda died out.
Then it happened in the 80s again
and then it kinda died out.
And then the 90s. it
was just the early 90s
it was like. I remember that time period
where I would go out skate
boarding all around Arizona
or Las Vegas. and be the only skater
for you know. weeks on end.
And if you saw another
skater boarder at that time
you were instantly like. ''Whoa. a skater.
like what's up homie?''
Like we're friends you
know like (chuckles)
like instantly friends just
because you skateboarded.
- I was a fading vert skater so it was
especially hard for me cause
the interest in vert skating
had dropped off almost completely.
And my income was getting
cut in half every month
by my sponsors. by my royalties.
And so I started doing whatever
I could taking on jobs.
I had a little bit of an editing system.
video editing system so I
would take freelance work
doing that.
Usually from other skate companies.
Actually from a video game
company as well coincidentally.
And. it was hard.
It was super hard but I
didn't want to quite skating
so I made it work however I could.
(techno music)
- There was this element of change
but it was good because
it really made people
think about you know. what they love
and if they were really committed to it.
Whether I wads truly in
love with skate boarding.
it was a challenged.
Was I going to quit cause the industry
went down in my area?
Or I'm gonna still skate anyway.
I choose to still skate anyway.
(heavy metal rock music)
- I mean skating in the 90s was just raw.
Like everybody that was doing it.
was. you know. you were
part of a small group
that were completely dedicated to it.
You felt like in the 90s
everything about skateboarding
was an us versus them mentality.
Like. you got it and only
the people that you knew
would understand it and
nobody else can get it
- Street skating is now
evolving with tricks.
From Rodney Mullins. you know. invention
of probably two thirds
of all the street tricks
you know. in the early 80s he
was inventing these things.
And then by the early 90s he was actually
even doing it in the street.
Putting a video park that looked
almost like a PlayStation game.
(upbeat guitar music)
- It was just really go get the trick.
It doesn't matter how it
looks in terms of perfection
of the shot. just get the trick.
And go out and do this until you get it.
And that was Rubbish Heap.
We created almost
intentionally to look rough.
and you know bad as oppose and contrast
to the sort of slick or silky
or were very professional
whatever you think of the "Bonus Brigade".
The tricks. the community. the identity.
that meant a lot.
Where we would all work
and focus on a part
and every little trick
you got. you focused on
okay what next. how I can outdo that next.
Where am I taking this?
(upbeat electronic guitar music)
- With the sort of underground revolution
of street skating in the mid 90s.
suddenly it came in to the forefront again
because it was like. wait a second.
these skaters are doing something new
that you couldn't deny.
you couldn't avoid.
because it was right
there in all the cities.
- Skateboarding with the economy.
it started kinda booming again.
It started picking up
momentum and by the time
we got to the mid 90s. it was peaking
the mainstreams interest.
So they wanted to create
a skateboard contest
that puts skateboarding on the grand stage
and that was the X games.
(funky techno music)
So in '95. the X games started
and the first one was in Rhode Island.
And it was the first kinda contest
to put skateboarding onto
televisions everywhere
and kinda put it into
everyone's households.
- [TV Narrator] Extreme
skateboarders rolled over
the roadway.
- When I watch it on TV. it was horrible.
I just wanted to turn the volume down.
It was just like what are
these guys talking about.
this is not what we are. who we are.
This is not our scene.
this is not what we think.
You know. the commentators were off.
like everything was off about it.
But you know. it was
exposure so how do we.
instead of going like. oh boycott.
you know. you go like.
how do we figure that out.
How do we make it to where the message
is right and we get it out there.
And as time went by.
they start. you know. kept going.
They kept tweaking the event.
And we. you know. there
was advisory boards
that were formed.
Tony and I were on one and. you know.
just kinda. you know.
tryna explain to them.
it was just this whole nother. you know.
sports world trying to say
this is what skateboarding is
and we're just saying. ''Hey that's cool.
We wanna have that exposure but. this is
what skateboarding is.''
- Most of my run was just doing
what vertical tricks I could
on this speed course.
So I didn't even expect It
that long. when I had it.
- Tony Hawk become this
poster child for the X games.
And everybody was like you
know oh Tony Hawk. Tony Hawk.
and he's very successful.
And people talked like. you know.
he had made money off of it.
And other people that weren't
a part of skateboarding
who may have looked at skateboarding
as a bunch of young punks
who would never amount
to anything or achieve anything.
now looked at them like.
oh wow these kids can become
something. can make money
and are on television.
- [Sports Commentator] His style is really
what he's know for.
- [TV Narrator] Nice
50 50 across in down.
- [Sports Commentator] Making
the hard stuff look easy.
- I don't know if there ever a moment
when I was like a younger kid
where I'm like. this has to be my career.
I was just like I saw
these dudes doing it on TV
and. like.
I just wanted to do it
at that level. you know.
I wanted to be that good.
Definitely seeing the X
games and seeing. you know.
guys on TV and stuff
like. definitely helped
push me in that direction
of like. oh I wanna do this.
But. I think it was just like..
I wanna just be as good as them.
And then the career
stuff kinda came later.
(hopeful music)
Skateboarding is
interesting and it's cool.
It's cool to watch. its
different than everything else.
It's creative. it's rebellious
and people enjoyed it.
You know and the X games seemed
like they found their niche
and they fired skateboarding
into homes everywhere.
- A lot of these games
I knew in their arcade.
you know. era. long before
they reached the home era.
It was really great.
And of course as time went on
and the extreme sports games
became more and more
popular. eventually this game
became a real big deal in the arcade.
This was tremendous.
720. 720 one of the earliest. you
know. skateboarding games.
It was a very big deal in the arcade.
And the reason I know from my
prospective at Twin Galaxies
how big of a deal it was.
by the number of people
competing to be the world record holder.
- [Interviewer] Tony
what have we got here?
- 720 by Atari. its pretty hot.
- [Interviewer] So where
are you skating right now?
- Just like around the city
and then I gotta go find a park
to skate at.
- I've heard you've always
been a gamer to some extent?
- Yeah.
Well I have played video
games since their inception.
You know.
since going to arcade. playing
PacMan. Missile Command.
Having an Atari at home. you know.
Getting into the Super Nintendo.
So I was an arcade kid really.
Skate games were rare.
You know. they made 720
then they made Skate or Die
for Commodore 64.
California games had skateboarding in it.
But it was few and far
between that (mumbles)
when it was included at all
in any kind of video game.
And I always knew that it
would be a fun platform
to make a game. whether
it be a home console
or a stand up arcade game.
And eventually Top Skater came around
and I felt like that was a
step in the right direction.
At least it was more experiential.
standing on the board
and you're controlling
the moves a little bit.
But I always felt like there
was something more to it
that could be explored.
(guitar strums)
(loud crash)
- I never thought to care about.
because Joel. Chris and I were all working
at Malibu together and
Joel had seen people
leaving Malibu and starting
their own companies.
And making a lot of money doing it.
So Joel thought. he'd do that.
he'd start his own company.
He gathered together the
best people he could find
which was me and Chris at the time.
and we got a deal doing a
game called Skelton Warriors
which was a little side
scrolling. slashing game.
(loud bangs)
After Skeleton Warriors we were looking
for another project and we
got a deal doing this game
called Big Guns for Sony.
It didn't really work out
and Sony canceled the game.
So we had a real. really
hard time around that period.
where we were looking for another project.
And then we eventually did this game
called Apocalypse for Activision.
(fast drumbeat)
And that worked out really well.
We did a very quick game.
we knocked it out in a year.
And. after that. Activision wanted
to continue working with us
cause it worked out so well.
- I got approached by a PC developer
that wanted to do a video
game based on skateboarding.
And he had a very crude engine.
It was all keyboard commands.
He asked if I would go pitch this idea
to different publishing companies
and just came up against
a lot of hesitation.
A lot of negativity.
People just said you know.
skateboarding is not popular.
Why would a skateboarding game be popular?
He finally gave up on it and said look.
I you know. I can't go
any further with this.
but your name is out there now
for the video game companies.
And he was right.
I got a call from Nintendo
to come up and talk to them.
They said no.(chuckles)
I had been working with Neversoft
on a game called Apocalypse
And then around that time
in the halls of Activision
there was an idea to do
a skateboarding game.
So. we kinda got that going.
We hired Neversoft to
start building a demo.
And then we started looking
for who could we attach
to that project to kinda
make it a bigger deal.
So we were looking at some magazines.
some personalities and it just seemed like
Tony Hawk was the guy.
(uplifting music)
- I don't think there's
anybody really at Neversoft
in the team. Joel. Chris and I
who'd ever skateboarded before.
So this was like a new thing to us
and I remember Joel said.
there wouldn't be any market
for a game like that cause it's
just a small. niche market.
So no one was really thinking
skateboarding would be good.
(loud crash and grinds)
- I got a call from Take-Two
which is now Rockstar Games.
And they wanted to work on a game
and I liked what they were doing
but their game seemed a little
too difficult to master.
(relaxed guitar music)
It was as hard as
skateboarding to learn almost
and so I'd felt like
that's not really the.
the hook that's gonna bring in a whole
new audience to skateboarding.
(thunder rumbles)
Activision called me and said
we are working on a game.
we heard you might be
working on another game.
we would like you to come
see what we're doing.
- He came in. he showed
up in like a T-shirt
and like ripped up cargo pants
and Activision had all these executives
all lined up in a conference room.
They sat Tony down and
they started showing him
PowerPoint after PowerPoint
of like revenue this.
and Activision that and
like. just all that stuff.
And I could just see Tony
just sort of sinking lower.
and lower in his chair.
just kinda. seemed like
he was kinda bored out of his mind.
But at the the meeting. we actually got
to roll in the demo level
that Neversoft had created.
And it was their. kind of first attempt
at a skateboarding game.
- What they actually
showed me was Bruce Willis
with a gun strapped to
his back. on a skateboard
riding through this wasteland.
♪ Well I can't wait to
tell you all about her ♪
♪ All about my new girl ♪
♪ He can't wait to tell you ♪
♪ About his new girl ♪
♪ And I can't wait for
you to hear me shout it ♪
♪ All about my new girl ♪
♪ He can't wait to tell you ♪
♪ About his new girl ♪
As silly as that sounds.
as soon as I played it
and I felt just some of the controls.
I knew that was the end.
That was intuitive. that was fun and.
with my influence. with my resources
we could make this
something truly special.
(upbeat rock music)
- When we started designing the levels
we basically stood on
front of a big white board
and we drew up ideas. just
off the top of our heads.
People where just shouting things out.
- I went to many skate shops.
I talked to many skaters.
I went to skating shows.
where I met pros and talked to everybody
and look. looked at everybodys style.
The way they dressed.
the music they listened.
And the culture.
I immersed myself completely
for a period of six months.
And this is what inspired me.
This is what made me come
up with that specific look.
- [Narrator] This is the correct way
to absorb the impact of a fall.
The first thing you wanna do is
to lower your center of gravity.
Relax. and if you have to fall.
just turn your head away from the fall.
- We were trying to be realistic.
People would say when the
skater falls off his skateboard
he should take damage.
You might. you know damage your ankle
or your skateboard might get messed up
and start going slower.
And this has always been a problem
with this type of video game.
People want realism where. really
people just want to have a fun time.
- I was looking to make a game
that was easy to pick up and
start playing right away.
That you didn't have to know
a ton about skateboarding
to get the controls.
That you could instantly
start doing tricks
without having some deep
knowledge of skate history
(chuckles) or of board controls.
So. for me. I didn't
want. I don't want to say.
that I wanted it to be arcadic.
I wanted it to be authentic.
- When I came in. the game itself.
they had started building kind of a demo.
And they we really inspired by Top Skater.
the Sega arcade game.
One of the early test levels
was. like an aqueduct.
You would skate down this river bed.
Once you got to the bottom of it
there was what become the warehouse level.
It was just kind of. like just a room
with that particular pool that was in it.
And everybody would get to
the bottom of that level
and then you know. in a minute
and then just spend a
half hour in the pool.
And that was one of those kinda moments
where you realize. like. okay.
this is what we wanted to do.
(loud crash)
(drum beats)
(wheels roll)
- Cool Dad. but can you do it
in a loin clothe like Tarzan?
- I had seen a lot of.
kind of cooperate entities
come into skateboarding and try and see
what they could take from skateboarding
and then they would just leave.
And they would leave whoever.
whatever. high and dry
and they just didn't even
care about the effect.
The effect that they had on skateboarding.
It was just like see how long they could
make money off of it.
So I the very beginning
I was leery of you know.
the whole video game concept.
And. you know. personally
I felt like the X games
were a little bit cheesy and corny.
And I felt like if this video game
is gonna be cheesy and
corny. then everybody
that's involved in the
game is gonna be the same.
You know. and I knew that Tony
was a little bit closer to the X games.
And his persona was a
little bit more wholesome.
and you know. a little bit more mainstream
and. than mine was.
So I was a little bit like
leery in the beginning
and almost didn't even want to do the game
because I just felt like
it was gonna be cheesy.
- Can't even remember exactly
how it happened but somebody called me up.
I don't know if it was Tony Hawk
or from somebody from Neversoft
and they were like do you
wat to be in a video game?
And I was just like.
at that time I remember
I couldn't even believe it
was gonna be real you know.
I was just like. I was amazed
by that idea. you know.
And it was a big idea I
felt like at that time.
I remember thinking like. thats just crazy.
Skateboarding has got to that level
that these major companies are
going to invest into an idea
that's a skateboarding video game.
And I just thought it was
the coolest thing ever.
- They game me the list
of everybody involved
and I kinda was like.
okay if I don't do this.
I'm gonna be like the one
dude that isn't with his peers
and so I kinda almost did
it because I felt like
I didn't want to be left out because those
were going to be household
names from this video game.
And so I did it.
(upbeat guitar music)
♪ Tonight's the night
that we got the truck ♪
♪ We're going downtown gonna beat ♪
♪ Up drunks ♪
- Once Tony came in.
he actually was. you know. was really good
in terms of giving his ideas
and giving us a lot of
feedback in the game.
He did a lot of actual play
testing of the game himself.
- When I first signed
up I had to teach them
the softer ropes about
skateboarding you know.
It was a crash course.
none of them really skated.
Pushing out this way is
called one type of trick
and pushing out this way
is another kind of trick.
There's no such thing as a front side indy.
stuff like that. I mean it
was. pretty overwhelming
the amount of information
I had to give them.
But they were very receptive you know.
there are a lot of people
that are in that position
that thought they had the upper hand.
You know. they. the
video game is happening
so they didn't have to
adhere to some crazy.
demand list of making it authentic.
(Tony chuckles)
(wheels roll)
the Mocap was. for one. embarrassing
cause you're wearing a skin tight suit
that's covered in what
looks like ping pong balls.
That's humiliating enough
but then to be asked to do
your absolutely most difficult
and most dangerous tricks
while wearing that was ridiculous.
And I got hurt a lot doing that.
Because you're not wearing like.
really the kinda of padding
you would usually wear.
And it's like okay go do a 900. like what?
- Generally I probably wouldn't have been
too involved in the process
but I blow my knew out
and I had to have ACL
surgery and I was on a couch
for. you know. a long period of time.
So that meant I had a month before surgery
and then a month after surgery
when I was just on a couch.
I started playing the game like crazy
and I. you know. played
video games growing up
but I'd never had a video game
that I had so much interest in
because it was like
basically. my whole life
was around skateboarding
and now I have a game
that has to do with every
aspect of what I do.
And so it was so intriguing to me.
I could still get the
satisfaction of doing tricks
and trying things very
similar to how skating was.
except I could do it
through the video game.
- The only hope I had for the game.
is that skaters would be proud of it.
And skaters might be inspired
to buy a PlayStation.
that was it.
I thought that if I can get
a skater to buy a PlayStation
and play this game. that's success.
When we started Tony Hawks.
we didn't really think
it was going to be a super success.
But I think as we developed the game.
we personally enjoyed playing it.
I really like. you know.
jumping doing like.
big tricks in the half pipe.
And I was just trying to make
a game that I enjoyed playing.
But then we started getting
focus testers coming in
and they would start playing the game.
And I remember these
two testers coming in.
the first ones we did and they kept saying
how tight it was.
Which was like a term
I never heard before.
Like.'' Dude. this game is really tight.
Isn't this video game tight.''
''Yeah man. its tight.''
So they were really like enthusiastic
about how tight it was.
And then the thing that really tweaked us
to the fact that it was
going to be successful
was when we released the demo disk
which was a disk given
away at Pizza Hut I think.
and at supermarket checkouts.
The demo disk had a
bunch of small versions
of different games on.
And we got a lot of feedback from that.
from people who really enjoyed
just playing that one game.
It was just like a small segment
and you could play two minutes
just skating around a warehouse.
But people really just enjoyed it.
you know I really enjoyed
playing that little demo.
Everybody was talking about this demo.
And. you know. I think on that disk too
was like a Final Fantasy game
which at the time. would
have been you know.
like seeling millions
and millions of copies.
And everybody is talking about
the Tony Hawk game on there instead.
- You would have to put
a skateboarding game out
and there has been a few and you're like.
ah that's fun. but like this is weird.
And then you get someone like
Tony Hawk. work on a game.
specifically and you
know its gonna come out
with that language ad that representation.
so. immediately skateboarders were in.
And then non skateboarders were addicted
and that just became
you know. what happened.
(upbeat rock music)
♪ Jerry was a race car driver ♪
♪ And he drove so goddamn fast ♪
♪ He never did win no checkered flag ♪
- Mean I don't know if there was songs
in video games before Pro Skater.
So when they asked us about
having a song in there.
I don't think we knew what that meant
because. every video game I
had I don't remember songs
and like song songs.
they'd have a built in song
that was coming form a chip or something.
It was like a song from
a band or anything so.
yeah I don't think we knew what that mean.
I hate it when you use your
music in the video game.
Okay. but.
- Back in the 90s people where
so precious about their music.
No one wanted their music
to be in commercials.
or movies. they just wanted it to be like.
only the tour and only as their own.
They didn't want to sell out or whatever..
it was just like. really
difficult to kind of like.
want to do sync store
licenses for your music.
For me. growing up with the
culture of skateboarding
like I talked about it was a no brainer.
I'm like of course. this
makes complete sense
for the style and music we do.
The ska punk song in a video game
that supports the culture
of what were doing.
(heavy metal music)
- You know the song wasn't necessarily.
it was on the radio a tiny
bit and weird markets.
And there was video
that was sort of a seen
but. definitely I remember noticing
a lot of people finding out about it
through the video game. (chuckles)
Of course you know. down the road
I thought it would become
like. dude I can't listen
to that song again.
I've heard that loop a
million times in my head
playing the game.
Like I love your band but I
can't hear that song again.
Cause you know. it wasn't the whole song.
it was just the little bit.
So you know you could hear that part
lopping over and over again.
- The video game obviously
turned into something
much bigger than I think anyone expected.
And the soundtrack
become like a real thing
that people like listened to.
If you're able to have people in Sweden
or Italy discover Southern
California punk rock in the 90s
that they wouldn't be
able to get to otherwise.
You know. because the internet
didn't exist back then.
- I was getting really excited
to be able to play it and see it.
And I think that started
to trigger my mind
and start to think what
is this gonna do for kids.
like. cause they're gonna
be playing this robotically
and its gonna. they're gonna train
by playing this video game.
And that was an interesting thought for me
at that time. you know. to think that.
this may actually affect the
evolution of skateboarding
which ultimately it did.
Crazy. (chuckles)
- [Narrator] X games
five in San Francisco.
a full moon rising over the bay.
Some of the gods of skateboarding past
went right in there shoulder to shoulder.
with thousands of screaming
fans who waited a long time.
Other skaters had had their moments.
Alan McKay drop it in there.
But this has really become a
personal quest for Tony Hawk
to master the trick.
He is beating himself up
doing for a decade. the 900.
(crowd cheers)
- [Commentator] Oh baby.
Stomp your feet everybody!
- Very close to the release
Activision offered me a buy out
and future royalties for
half a million dollars.
And I had never heard anyone even speak
half a million dollars to me.
And so that was incredible.
that was to me unbelievable
but at the same time. my career had
kinda turned around right then.
I was making pretty good money.
I had just bought a new house.
I had a family.
I. you know. I had potential
and so I felt pretty comfortable.
And for the first time really in my life
I felt fairly confident in my career
and so I declined their offer
to just see what happens.
ride it out. I mean it
was probably the best
business decision I ever made.
But it seemed risky at the time. you know.
that seems like a lot of money.
It is a lot of money. (chuckles)
it still is a lot of money.
- [Commentator] Tony.
Tony.
900!
Oh!
(crowd cheers)
oh god. the closest I've
ever seen in my life.
(crowd drowns out commentator)
I feel like there are so many factors
of why the first game was a success.
First and foremost it
was. it was made well.
It was a great game to play.
I mean that is all Neversoft.
And yeah. I mean I landed
the 900 that summer
by pure coincidence you know.
three months before the game was released.
And into the very end of the
development cycle of the game.
(crowd cheers)
- [Commentator] Are you seeing this?
Tony Hawk everybody!
- Watching skateboarding
go through that stage
of going from. okay that's
about as much as you can do
on a skateboard to. no there's more.
It opened up and took the
ceiling off of skateboarding.
It said skateboarding
has not stopped here.
I remember emailing Joel.
probably the next day
and I said. hey do you
guys think you could get
a 900 in the game.
He's like. ''Already on it.''
And it was you know. about to
be released for submission.
You know. there's a lot
of whatever folklore
that's like you've got the 900
then you got the video game.
No we were working on the
video game for two years
prior to that and there was no grand plan
of trying to make this trick happen.
Like are you kidding me?
I would never have been that methodical
about anything in my life.
The fact that Activision
was so excited about it
and started putting more
marketing money into it
that gave me the sign that
it was gonna be popular
beyond just skateboarders.
(siren wails)
(upbeat rock music)
- [Advertiser] Tony Hawks Pro
Skater. now everyone things
they can skate like Tony.
(wheels rumble)
(soft thuds)
- I remember playing the video game
and me and my brother
had a pool in my backyard
and we would go out there
and we would have our
skateboards on our hands
and do like tricks that we would see
like in the video games.
And then we would think to ourselves
like damn. I wonder if Tony Hawk
came and skated in my pool.
if he could do those
tricks that (chuckles).
And now that I'm older
my pool is like that deep
and no way. you couldn't
do anything in it.
But it still just like inspires
you to think outside the box. I think.
I definitely don't think that I would be
were I'm at if it wasn't
for that video game
cause it definitely did
inspire me to skate more.
Cause it was so fun to play the video game
that it was just fun for me to skate.
And then you know. you got older
and then kinda phased out video games
and just got skating you know. so.
- Yeah. the game definitely
affected my career.
It was one of the main things that
got me like started I think.
You know I was already
like super into video games
so. once that game came
out. I just was like.
I was all about that game.
I spent countless hours playing that game.
And I think that can be said
for a lot of other people too.
just over the years.
talking to other people
that I'm traveling with and skating with.
They're like dude. I played that game.
I played the shit out of that game.
(game sounds whir)
- It seems to me that Tony Hawk Pro Skater
was a pioneer in the same way Pac-Man
had pioneered the world's
love for maze games
even though it didn't invent necessarily.
you know the extreme sport game.
It pioneered the incredible
community and culture
so that could expand
further. expand wider.
And it would allow actually more producers
to be bold enough to embrace that genre.
of you know. extreme sports games
and get more and more
extreme sport games titles
the chance to come to life.
- I had not monetary expectations.
I had no like. this is
gonna help skateboarding.
Its going to educate
kids that don't skate.
I didn't even think about any of that.
It was just like this game is fun to play.
I enjoy it.
I'm hyped to be in it.
I'm hyped to be around and associated
with all these other pro-skateboarders
who are at the top of their game.
And it was a good feeling. you know.
X games was like the tip of the iceberg.
Like Tony Hawk Pro
Skater sent skateboarding
into millions of homes.
And it didn't just send it in there
and it was gone the next week.
It sent it into their homes and it stayed.
- Sony PlayStation!
Oh my god!
(paper rustles)
- I can't speak enough
on how much of an impact
that this video game had for skateboarding
and the skateboarding
industry to be presented
to the masses on a whole.
It probably made hundreds of thousands
if not millions of kids
start skateboarding
that may have never touched
a skateboard in their life.
If anything it showed our world to people
that didn't skate and got them interested.
So there are a lot of kids
that started skateboarding
because of the game right.
They started playing the game.
they kinda got interested in skating
and then they started skating.
- As skaters we were blown away
because we're like looking
at people that we know.
and we know nobody else
knows who these people are.
Ad suddenly there's people that have never
ridden a skateboard before
that asking me like.
do you know Chad Muska?
Do you know Tony Hawk?
Do you know Andrew Reynolds?
I'm like. you've never riden
skateboarder a day in your life
how do you even know who these people are?
Or trick terminology. like people
that have never even ridden a skateboard
talking about skate tricks as
if they knew what that meant.
- You're getting an education
basically on skateboarding.
And yeah. it is a little bit skewed.
It's through this video game. you know.
and not all the trick names are right.
in my opinion and you know.
somethings are undoable
and were kind of distorting peoples views
on what's possible in skateboarding.
But that also could be a good thing.
I mean future generations could think that
that stuff is possible
and they could progress
skateboarding in a way.
(loud rumbles)
- So towards the end of
'99. we're playing Europe
on this first kind of real tour of Europe.
We had toured the states from '94 to '98.
Solid right?
First time really touring
there and we played the set.
No one really gave a shit about our band.
We're opening for the Bloodhound gang.
Then we play Superman.
its like the entire place
goes fucking ballistic.
Like full circle everyone staged
it was just crazy. right. it's intense.
I'm like what the fuck man!
The game completely changed the trajectory
of my band. without question.
Like I play that show. we played
that song. and it was just like.
this is the biggest song we have
because of a skateboarding video game.
♪ Here I am ♪
♪ Growing older all the time ♪
♪ Looking older all the time. ♪
♪ Feeling younger in my mind ♪
♪ Here I am ♪
♪ Doing everything I can ♪
♪ Holding on to what I have ♪
- You have sold
a billion dollars of video games.
That is insane my friend
- It's well--
- I take it you get a
little slice. just my guess.
- Yeah. I can't complain.
- Yeah absolutely
my guess would be.
- The game itself changed my life.
I mean I started getting
recognized everywhere I went.
It was not something I was accustomed to
nor was it something
that I was looking for.
When you set out to be a skateboarder
and when I started.
you were never gonna be
rich or famous from it
cause no one else was.
So that wasn't the driving factor.
And so when. suddenly I found myself
with this unparalleled
fame from skateboarding.
I didn't really understand
it. I didn't know
how to handle it but. yeah it
changed my life completely.
You know. I'm like. it
provided for my family.
It allowed me to travel the world
at someones else's expense. it allowed me
to skate more than ever. do tours.
I mean I can't like. the
list goes on and on and on.
You know. I was on the ''Simpsons''.
I was in the White House and a lot of that
is because of the game.
- All right.
So right now I'm here with Tony Hawk.
The music is bumping. the
party is getting live.
it's crazy here at Activision 2000.
Now we got his number
two coming out right now.
and what do you think of it?
- The second one just
blows away the first one.
I don't think people would
believe that it can get the most.
this much better.
(upbeat rock music)
- How I heard about the first Tony Hawk
Pro Skater game was I saw it.
And then I saw it come out
and saw people playing it.
And I looked at it. I
looked at the characters
and I'm like man. that would have been
so cool to be in this game. like.
Why didn't I get picked.
(chuckles) you know?
I guess because of the
success of number one.
I heard there was going
to be a number two.
- There was no plan from
the start for a sequel.
I think Activision thought obviously
if it was going to be a success
they would do a sequel but they weren't.
we had no plans as a company to do it.
We were just going to do this one game
and see how it did.
So it was all very contingent upon
whether the game was a success or not.
And of course it was. so we started going
on Tony Hawk two. as soon as we finished
working on Tony Hawk one.
So Pro Skater one was all
about figuring out the core.
right like. the core physics.
the core trick system.
getting levels to work.
getting animations to work.
Getting everything to kinda feel good
and work good together.
And I think we got all that stuff working
kinda at the very end of the project
and then we put some goals on top of it
and that was the first game.
So two. was all about
expanding on that base.
Now we had a solid base and
we could start to explore.
kind of interesting new
features in the second game.
(upbeat rock music)
- Two I felt like was the
version that we wanted to make
for one. which I'm sure everybody says.
But it really. it really nailed it.
Like after two. or as
we're working on two.
there wasn't that. you know.
what if we added this factor.
It felt like we added everything
that needed to be added
and this was gonna be really cool.
♪ Predict me ♪
♪ I'm predictable ♪
- Tony. when he made the
900. he just blasted off.
And he was everywhere. I mean everywhere.
And I remember because we
didn't hang out as much
because we both weren't on Pal anymore
and when I saw him I was actually nervous
to be around him because
he seemed like such a star.
And then seriously within five seconds.
or less. you realize he's just Tony.
Like when he had the first
game. I was like. wow
that's something but. I don't play games.
I didn't relate. I didn't pay attention.
It was until I got hurt
and busted an ankle
and going back to our Pal days.
of all the people I
didn't relate to anyone
the way I relate to Tony.
I called him Tony.
I need to talk to you. I
don't know what I'm gonna do.
And he just did his usual.
of I don't even know
what you're talking
about. it's gonna heal.
Weird set of ankles and by the way.
do you wanna be in my game?
I went up there. met Ralph.
all these characters.
Neversoft was tiny at that stage.
Game comes out. I didn't
pay much attention
cause it just goes out.
It doesn't affect your life.
Then I go on tour in a few months.
and I couldn't believe it.
the difference it made.
Look because I was in the game. like
they had to lift me onto a
van to separate from guys
that were my peers if not better.
I mean not just better. a lot better.
The van was rocking. like it
was nuts. what that game did.
Not just for skateboarding as a whole
but for us as individuals.
(heavy fast rock music)
♪ There's a place where
everyone can be happy ♪
♪ Its the most beautiful place
in the whole fucking world ♪
♪ Its made of candy cane the plane ♪
♪ That brought out future trains ♪
♪ And the people little voice ♪
♪ And the most innocent little girls ♪
- I would get letters.
it was just me and Bret
working at Epitaph it
was just the two of us.
And we would get letters
from people. that like.
this was around the time
the handycam was invented.
Guys were . making movies
and they were saying.
hey can we have your songs.
And I would send them every record we had.
Use whatever you want.
Cause it just made sense
to be part of that world.
I was part of that world.
And I wanted to be in that.
Tony. was making Pro Skater 2
and had his collection of friends
that he was going to put in the game
and had asked him to
give him a list of songs
from bands that they
wanted to be in the game.
Tony approached Brett at Epitaph
said we wanna use your song.
And I remember back going. I
don't even know what this is.
What is this? (laughs)
I think it is a video game.
- Once the second game came out
ad it had such rave
reviews. and there was this
huge wave of interest in the game.
But also in skateboarding I knew that
there was something happening more
than just a successful video game.
There was something happening were it's
drawing attention to skateboarding.
If nothing else. it helped to
create a fan base for skating.
Which we had never really had before.
The only fans of skating prior to that
were ones that actually skated themselves.
- So I would love to know how many hours
you spend playing Tony Hawk Pro Skater.
- Upwards of 100 hours really.
A lot of hours.
I put a lot of hours into
and I'm glad I got selected.
to you know. for the competition.
- Kara here in San Francisco
at the Tony Hawk Pro Skater 2.
Big Score contest.
We've got 12 contestants
from all over the world.
They're gonna go head to head
for number one spot $12.000.
$10.000 excuse me. twelve
contests $10.000. woo!
- For Twin Galaxies our big investment
of time and energy was Pro Skater 2.
The video game world loved
Tony Hawk Pro Skater 2 so much.
that large crowds of people
swarmed to our website
and got involved with Twin Galaxy program.
Because they were essential invited in
by our Tony Hawk Pro
Skater 2 championships.
So its a very smart investment
cause Tony Hawk Pro Skater 2.
was the best thing we could
have put our attention on
and supported because
it was the big. big game
in the world at that time.
It was one of the biggest
things we ever did
based on the number of people
who actively got engaged.
- Within five years of
that game coming out.
more people would come
to the shows and say.
I first heard you on this
game. Tony Hawk Pro Skater 2.
I never heard your band
before but I heard this
and that's how I found you.
And that still happens today.
- As the game was still on the rise.
they. Activision was doing well
and they wanted to lock me into a contract
because they wanted to
tell their stockholders
that they had me for this many years.
or for the next decade or so.
And offered me a giant
advanced royalty for games.
It was weird because my agent
was sort of waffling on it.
saying whoa we can cut
this out. cut this out.
I was like. I've never going to see
this much money in my lifetime.
Take it.
I love working with them.
(chuckles). you know.
This hasn't been a struggle.
this has been the best time of my life.
And so. I told him like.
just let's just do it.
The craziest part about all of that.
is that I made those royalties back
in almost have that time.
- Well I think that the games got better.
I think that the first one was like
here's a new idea. its
super fun and exciting.
And you know. the warehouse
and the opening levels
so rad and it was like.
in theory you could play
there for years. you know.
But. they started expanding
so many different ideas
and you know. interacting and
then bringing in real spots.
And I thought it was amazing.
I thought the evolution of it was awesome.
- THPS 3 was a huge
improvement because it was
on the next console.
So the graphics were better.
the motion was better.
the maps were bigger. you know.
obviously we were embracing the technology
and Neversoft was always on
the pulse of any new console.
- And the direction went
a little more arcadey.
you know. a little
more. I don't know like.
satire. you know. of skateboarding.
And it wasn't quite as skater centric
as the first couple of titles were.
When four came around. we decided like.
we wanna go back to. you know.
servicing the skateboard crowd.
And I think we can do more with the game
than just the goals
that we kept repeating.
♪ Oh ♪
♪ It's set in 1848 in the
crush of New York state ♪
♪ And the thing about destiny ♪
♪ Is it never ever sets you free ♪
- [Game Character] Yes. that was so sick!
- Once the fourth game came out
and the other three were
still in the top ten of sales.
that was the tipping point.
That was when we're
here to stay. you know.
in so many ways and
Activision started talking
about doing the O2 brand you
know with BMX and Snowboarding.
With wakeboarding. it was
like this is way beyond
anything I ever imagined.
We did create a genre.
(countdown beeps)
(film rolls)
(camera clicks)
(loud crash)
♪ Don't you wanna go ♪
- I think for Tony Hawk Pro Skater 4
was the last one I that
remember being like. big.
By the time we got to Underground
it had lost a little bit of that. like.
I don't wanna say innocence
but like original intent.
And maybe I'm biased because I was only
in the first five games. but you know.
the first four. the progression was so rad
and you couldn't wait till the next one
for the next one to come out.
The potency or the relevance starts to get
a little bit muddled
and convoluted. you know
as you keep trying to reinvent the wheel.
- The video game franchise. I don't know
if it was sustainable
on a pop culture level
because there was you know. the best ones
were still kinda like the first ones.
It just seemed like the
franchise had kind of like.
done what it had meant to do
and people and gamers
interests just kind of changed.
- When we came out with the first one.
we doing something that
hadn't been done in ages.
You know. it's not
football. it's not baseball.
It's not this thing that's
been around for a 100 years
and isn't going anywhere.
It's always had it's audience.
and it's always had kind
of these ups and downs.
I think what wanted happened is. you know.
we were putting out a lot
of the same feeling thing.
which is what you want. but
we kept adding a layer to it.
You know. another layer and
another layer and another layer.
And the stuff that we were adding to it
just became less and less important.
- We we're still trying to figure out
how we could continue
the franchise to make it.
desirable for people.
And so the experience
with THUG 2 in particular.
and we knew it wasn't going to be
probably as popular as five.
And obviously. you know
we were always trying to
capture the magic of
two and three and one.
to try and get that back up.
But yeah. there was. you know.
starting to be a little bit.
okay. we are just making
another Tony Hawk game.
Honestly I don't even know
if we could have continued
if we had hadn't had the
coolest ideas possible
that it could have continued to go upward
opposed to plateauing and the
slowly losing it's interest.
- Well we saw a decline in sales you know.
once project eight came out.
And the skate franchise
was coming into the scene.
That pretty much split the market so
it was like suddenly
we got half the sales.
thanks to a whole new franchise.
This thing is full of technology.
It's got accelerometers.
It's got infrared senses here.
It knows where your feet are.
it knows where your hands are.
You can come in ad actually go for grabs.
You can lean it. you can kick it up.
you can actually put your
foot on the side of it
as if your pushing along.
The whole thing responses
like a real skateboard.
Really. the best way to
experience skateboarding.
is as it's meant to be. on a board.
When we did it Ride it
was released too soon.
It just wasn't ready.
it wasn't you know. the
syncing issues were a problem already
and just the control
mechanism was pretty wonky.
So I think that by the time that we got
the second game out.
Shred that was the game
that I had in mind for the first one.
By the time that game came out.
people were over peripherals.
They were over Guitar Hero.
you know the plastics
were done pretty much.
And it was just. bad timing.
I don't think that was
in line with a decline
in skateboarding popularity.
I feel like skateboarding had come so far
and it was kinda here to stay.
The types of things that have happened
since that series ended. in
skateboarding. it's huge.
Its in the Olympics
now. it's street league.
You know. it's still a big thing.
- Over the years. what
the video games and stuff
ad what I see now. today. I see
how skateboarding has progressed.
The tricks that was doing back in those.
early you know 2000s. with my fingers.
I now look at Instagram now and I see kids
actually doing these tricks.
you know which I would never even think.
like. the progression of
skateboarding would get that far.
But I think because of the help.
of the imagination of what
we could do with our fingers
they actually thought they were possible.
So they would try them.
- Yeah I definitely thing that the game
evolved skateboarding in general.
And it made it so that.
all these new people would
try these new crazy tricks
that you haven't seen before.
I think it really does help.
visualizing the video game.
you know like. I think
I could maybe do that
with my feet like. (chuckles) you know.
So. I think it definitely
inspired a whole new genre
of just skating.
- Because of the growth of
skating over these decades.
there has been shifting perspective
of what mainstream really means.
I remember in the mid 80s. when I was
doing demos for Swatch. for Converse.
I took a little heat from that because
that was considered mainstreaming it.
And a little bit of deal
with the devilishness.
Later one when the video
game started to appear.
it was the same argument
of. yeah but that's
not core. it will deface what we do.
That also. if anything.
only lifted the bar.
bringing in more and more
talented people all the time.
Never was it selling out. never
was it mainstreamification.
In a sense we think of the downsides.
Oh it's just another baseball
diamond type of sport.
- I never coveted
skateboarding as something
that I wanted to keep to
myself or to hide away
from the general public.
I always wondered why kids or people
who were into mainstream sports.
didn't appreciate skateboarding.
I felt like it had so many of the elements
of something that's cool.
It was daredevil. it was creative.
it was difficult. it was
accessible. you know.
And I never understood
why it was not popular.
So for me. I wasn't looking to go back
to the old days of
underground skateboarding.
If nothing else I was
happy that I could finally
make a living doing it.
I think skateboarding should be.
and can be enjoyed by everyone.
And there's people out there that
just want the sport for themselves.
And when they see that it gets popular.
or other people are doing
it. they get offended by it.
you know. and they get turned off by it
because it was something that was theirs.
It was special to them.
It's something that they discovered.
And they don't wanna share it.
I've never had a negative
outlook when X games started.
I never had a outlook. negative outlook
when the Tony Hawk Pro
Skater games became available
and I'd have to say. you know that
Tony Hawk's Pro Skater
really helped along my career
you know. because it put
me on another level of fame
and some recognition for what I have done
over the years to promote skateboarding
and show the world. you
know. this art form.
(uplifting rock music)
I had these two friends
growing up. they were brothers.
I went over there one day after school
and we started playing
Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2
and I saw that there
was a black skateboarder
and I was like. oh my god
(laughs). this is kinda cool.
I feel like if I didn't see
Kareem Campbell in that though.
I probably wouldn't have
like been interested.
But because I saw like. representation.
I felt like it was
something that I could do.
I was expected to like play football.
and like basketball and stuff like that.
You know I'm just like. well
I'm probably just gonna skate.
(laughs)
- The fact that the
characters where pro-skaters
I think was.
like a key factpr for parents to see
because their kids are like.
oh look Tony did this. and
Bucky did this on the game.
And they find out who these people are
and that skating is. you
know. its a good thing.
There's good influential
people in skateboarding.
They inspire all types of
kids. all types of people
and I think that's like.
the game shows that.
(hopeful drum music)
- As a hardcore skater and you know.
somebody who came up when
it was this underground
industry. I'll always love it as that
and I'll aways cherish those times
and those moments because that's when
it was the most. pure to me at least.
But with the growth of
skateboarding is the growth
of the industry which means
more jobs for skateboarders.
More jobs for people that are involved
in the skateboard industry.
So to see the growth of skateboarding
and then to become this
culturally mainstream
accepted thing. for me. I love it.
I think it's great.
- I hated it when I was in high school
and the jocks would find
me and the gangsters.
were like jumping me and my friend.
After school we had to run from them.
you know. that was not cool.
It's way cool when they think. you're .
what you do is awesome.
- I never really saw a girl skate
until I heard about the Combi Contest.
You know I saw Lizzy
there for the first time.
I saw Kerrybeth Burnsides
and then of course like.
little girls like myself at the time.
who were just learning how to skate
and it really opened my eyes
to be like oh this is so rad.
like lots of girls do this you know.
I think. having Elissa
Steamer in the video game.
was like a huge step forward
for women skateboarding.
Just because it showed like inclusion
and it showed you know.
girls who did play the game
and wanted to skate as a girl.
They got to be able to skate as Elissa.
And I think that's super
rad and like I'm thankful
for the people who created the game.
to have done that for it I'm sure
it opened a lot of girls eyes.
- Skateboarding became bigger
that Little League. truly.
Americans past time. had been surpassed
by skateboarding at that time.
And. definitely the video game
was a huge factor in that.
- The game had an enormous impact.
I remember distinctly on
a like Samoan pretty tough
neighborhoods.
I remember filming in
there. one particular time
and these dudes come
out and they were huge.
And they definitely looked like
fresh out of prison at best.
In the middle of the intimidation
of just what is gonna happen right here.
are we gonna get beat up. it's like wait.
are you that guy?
Are you in the Tony Hawk video game?
And I remember his posture
went from like bully to kid.
To like oh my god i've been playing you.
can you really do this trick?
And when you hear a guy like that
rattle off a name of some crazy combo.
like nose wheelie nollie 360 to shove
nose wheelie to nollie flip out.
something like that.
you're like holy crap.
How does this guy know anything?
Like he appreciates what we do.
I thought I brought just one example
of how it brought the
complexity of what we do
to the general public.
- It is beautiful to just to see
like people like. be able to share
this thing that we all
love. like you know.
Without feeling like they're
an outsider or anything
cause most people who skate
already feel like outsiders.
So it's like. what's the point
of trying to make us feel
like even more isolated.
- The generation that grew up playing THPS
and started skating because of it
thought that like. 360
flip to crooked grind
is just something you do
when you learn to skate.
And that shit didn't even
exist when I grew up.
You really. if you looked today.
the kind of tricks that
people are putting on video
and doing in contests. its THPS stuff.
I'm sorry but. (chuckles)
that is where it came from.
- The tricks are just getting insane
and everyone is taking
it to the next level.
And everyone is getting so good. so good.
And I think that it's
just gonna keep going
and going and going.
- I'm hugely proud of the series you know.
It was. I never imagined
that it would go so far.
I never imagined that it
would resonate that much.
and that it would be that popular.
I think the. a big reason
that I'm still here.
that I'm still even
relevant in this world.
is because of that series.
I mean for sure it's
the reason I'm standing
on this million dollar ramp.
that I get to skate everyday.
- [Commentator] Everybody
get set here we go!
Feel it!
(wheels roll and rumble)
(crowd cheers)
- [Commentator] Tony Hawk everybody!
(somber guitar music)
♪ So here I am ♪
♪ Doing everything I can ♪
♪ Holding on to what I am ♪
♪ Pretending I'm a superman ♪
♪ I'm trying to keep ♪
♪ The ground on my feet ♪
♪ Seems the world's
falling down around me ♪
♪ The night's are all long ♪
♪ Singing this song ♪
♪ Trying to make the
answer's more than maybe ♪
♪ And I'm so confused ♪
♪ About what to do ♪
♪ Sometimes I want to throw it all away ♪
♪ I'm trying to sleep ♪
♪ I lost count of sheep ♪
♪ My mind is racing faster every minute ♪
♪ What could I do more ♪
♪ Yeah ♪
♪ I'm really not sure ♪
♪ I don't want to run in
circles but I can't quit ♪
♪ And I'm so confused ♪
♪ About what to do ♪
♪ Sometimes I want to throw it all away ♪
♪ Controlling everything in sight ♪
♪ Feeling weak I don't feel right ♪
♪ Telling me I have to change ♪
♪ Telling me to act my age ♪
♪ But if all that I can do is to ♪
♪ Sit and watch the time go by ♪
♪ Then I'll have to say goodbye ♪
♪ Life's too short to watch it fly ♪
♪ So here I am ♪
♪ Growing older all the time ♪
♪ Looking older all the time ♪
♪ Feeling younger in my mind ♪
♪ Here I am ♪
♪ Doing everything I can ♪
♪ Holding onto what I am ♪
♪ Pretending I'm a superman ♪